guide: Micronaut Framework Dependency Injection Types (#1071)
micronaut-projects/micronaut-guides: guides/micronaut-dependency-injection-types/micronaut-dependency-injection-types.adoc

NOTE: In Micronaut Framework documentation, we often use the term `Bean` and `Dependency` interchangeably.

== Dependency Injection Types

Micronaut Framework offers three types of dependency injection:

=== Constructor Injection

In constructor-based injection, Micronaut Framework provides the dependencies required for the class as arguments to the constructor.

source:constructor/MessageController[]

=== Field Injection

With field injection, Micronaut fulfills the injection endpoints for fields annotated with `jakarta.inject.Inject`.

source:field/MessageController[]

NOTE: You use field injection in test classes annotated with `MicronautTest`. Micronaut does not instantiate the test class. Thus, you cannot use Constructor Injection in those classes.

=== Setter Injection

For setter-inject, you define the required dependencies as field parameters. Micronaut Framework sets the dependencies through the setter methods of the properties. We have to annotate the setter method with the `jakarta.inject.Inject` annotation.

source:setter/MessageController[]

=== Recommendation

> When possible, we recommend you use Constructor Injection.
> 
> - Constructor injection allows you to define `final` dependencies. Thus, creating immutable objects.
> - Identify Code Smells: Constructor injection helps you easily identify if your bean depends on too many other objects.
> - Easier Testing. Constructor injection simplifies writing unit tests. The constructor forces us to provide valid objects for all dependencies

Reviewer: Suggestion to ease the reading of this:

```suggestion
When possible, we recommend you use Constructor Injection for several reasons:

. Immutability
+
Constructor injection allows you to define `final` dependencies. Thus, creating immutable objects.
. Identifying code smells
+
Constructor injection helps you easily identify if your bean depends on too many other objects.
. Testing
+
Constructor injection simplifies writing both unit and integration tests. The constructor forces us to provide valid objects for all dependencies
```

common:header-top.adoc[]

== Sample Project

You can link:@sourceDir@.zip[download a sample application] with the code examples shown in this article.

== Introduction

What is a dependency? Class A has a dependency on Class B when it interacts with it in any way. For example, Class A executes a method in an instance of Class B. You typically don't instantiate class dependencies when using Micronaut Framework's dependency injection engine. Instead, you rely on the framework to provide dependency instances.

NOTE: In Micronaut Framework documentation, we often use the term `Bean` and `Dependency` interchangeably.

== Dependency Injection Types

Micronaut Framework offers three types of dependency injection:

=== Constructor Injection

> In constructor-based injection, Micronaut Framework provides the dependencies required for the class as arguments to the constructor.

Reviewer 2: Point out that constructor injection is the preferred approach because it clearly expresses the requirements of the class and requires no additional annotation

Author: I have added an extra note to the section describing the benefits of constructor injection. 

https://github.com/micronaut-projects/micronaut-guides/pull/1071/commits/567f05d3402fece4899ca54fc65ad3a0de484744

> source:constructor/MessageController[]

Reviewer 2: Worth describing that you can use `@Nullable` to make a constructor parameter optional

Reviewer 2: Worth describing that beyond types you can injection lists, arrays etc.

Author: I think we could talk about optional dependencies and multiple injection in a separate guide. I would like to keep this guide as simple as possible and focus on the different types of injection supported.

=== Field Injection

> With field injection, Micronaut fulfills the injection endpoints for fields annotated with `jakarta.inject.Inject`.

Reviewer 2: Point out that field injection is discouraged because it increases the change of a NPE and makes it harder to understand a classes requirements

Author: I added a paragraph  https://github.com/micronaut-projects/micronaut-guides/pull/1071/commits/7322f48a1e9736079a917a41b07720c053dc363a. Please note that we already have a section talking about constructor injection advantages.

source:field/MessageController[]

NOTE: You use field injection in test classes annotated with `MicronautTest`. Micronaut does not instantiate the test class. Thus, you cannot use Constructor Injection in those classes.

=== Setter Injection

> For setter-inject, you define the required dependencies as field parameters. Micronaut Framework sets the dependencies through the setter methods of the properties. We have to annotate the setter method with the `jakarta.inject.Inject` annotation.

Reviewer 2: This is not really setter injection, it is method parameter injection and you can have one or more parameters. The method doesn't have to be a setter it can have any name.

Author: resolved via https://github.com/micronaut-projects/micronaut-guides/pull/1071/commits/4c366a44fb693a3b0177c0a4f01ed601b79785b4

source:setter/MessageController[]

=== Recommendation

When possible, we recommend you use Constructor Injection for several reasons:

. Immutability
+
Constructor injection allows you to define `final` dependencies. Thus, creating immutable objects.
. Identifying code smells
+
Constructor injection helps you easily identify if your bean depends on too many other objects.
. Testing
+

> Constructor injection simplifies writing both unit and integration tests. The constructor forces us to provide valid objects for all dependencies

Reviewer 2: * constructor injection reduces the chance of a NPE occurring during testing

* constructor injection clearly expresses the requirements of the class

Author: resolved via https://github.com/micronaut-projects/micronaut-guides/pull/1071/commits/567f05d3402fece4899ca54fc65ad3a0de484744 and  https://github.com/micronaut-projects/micronaut-guides/pull/1071/commits/cf689b8fc1e8b69fa6e4129b4b27d1b3acd541da

common:header-top.adoc[]

== Sample Project

You can link:@sourceDir@.zip[download a sample application] with the code examples shown in this article.

== Introduction

What is a dependency? Class A has a dependency on Class B when it interacts with it in any way. For example, Class A executes a method in an instance of Class B. You typically don't instantiate class dependencies when using Micronaut Framework's dependency injection engine. Instead, you rely on the framework to provide dependency instances.

NOTE: In Micronaut Framework documentation, we often use the term `Bean` and `Dependency` interchangeably.

== JSR-330

Micronaut Framework implements the https://javax-inject.github.io/javax-inject/[JSR-330 - Dependency Injection for Java specification].
 
== jakarta.inject vs javax.inject
 

> Early versions of Micronaut Framework used `javax.inject` annotations. Due to trademark restrictions imposed on the `javax.*` namespace, the Micronaut framework switched from the `javax.inject` to the `jakarta.inject` annotations. Since version https://micronaut.io/2021/03/09/micronaut-2-4-released/[Micronaut Framework 2.4] supports `jakarta.inject` annotations. Moreover, Micronaut Framework switched to `jakarta.inject` as the set of annotations included by default with the Framework, and we strongly encourage you to use `jakarta.inject` moving forward.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Early versions of Micronaut Framework used `javax.inject` annotations. Due to trademark restrictions imposed on the `javax.*` namespace, the Micronaut framework switched from the `javax.inject` to the `jakarta.inject` annotations. Since https://micronaut.io/2021/03/09/micronaut-2-4-released/[version 2.4], the Micronaut framework supports `jakarta.inject` annotations. Moreover, Micronaut Framework switched to `jakarta.inject` as the set of annotations included by default, and we strongly encourage you to use `jakarta.inject` going forward.
```
